# Minimum-Persistent-Cycles
Computing Minimal Persistent Cycles: Polynomial and Hard Cases 

"pers2cyc_fin" software is developed by the Jyamiti research group headed by 
Prof. Tamal K. Dey at the Department of Computer Science and Engineering 
of The Ohio State University.

The binaries are distributed for: MacOS;

=================================
DESCRIPTION
=================================

Our software pers2cyc_fin: Given a point file in Persues formatgenerates the persistent 2-cycle for the barcodes.
It implements Algorithm 3 of the following paper:
	* Paper: T. K. Dey, T. Hao, S. Mandal
		Computing Minimal Persistent Cycles: Polynomial and Hard Cases(SODA 2020)
    
=================================
USAGE
=================================
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
./pers2cyc_fin -i <point_filename> [-options]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

pers2cyc_fin Usage:
  -h                    Help information;
  -l                    License information;
  -n arg (=1)           Number of 2-cycles to output
  -d arg (=0)           Which bar from largest
  -g arg (=0)           Gap
  -i arg                The file contains points in persues stlye. See Gudhi 
                        documentation
  -v arg (=0)           Display simplex values and program calculation


		

=================================
OUTPUT FILES:
=================================

"pers2cyc_fin" produces .off files containing 2-cycle for each bar in the barcode.

To visualise, use Paraview or Meshlab or similar mesh viewing softwares.

=================================
EXAMPLE
=================================

A sample input simpers file "botijo_002_pers",  and filtration file "botijo_002f.txt" is provided in the folder "pers2cyc_fin-Example"
which, given 8919 points sampled from the surface of a botijo and barcode generated from its filtration using simpers, gives the corresponding loops in the figure.

Run the following command:

Complete command:
	./pers2cyc_fin -i Pf20.binLE -n 5


Output a folder named "Pf20.binLEloops/" which stores 2-cycles of the top 5 intervals in off format.


=================================
LEGAL TERMS
=================================

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS-IS". THERE IS NO WARRANTY OF ANY KIND. 
NEITHER THE AUTHORS NOR THE OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY WILL BE LIABLE FOR 
ANY DAMAGES OF ANY KIND, EVEN IF ADVISED OF SUCH POSSIBILITY.

This software was developed (and is copyrighted by) the Jyamiti group at 
The Ohio State University. Please do not redistribute this software. 
This program is for academic research use only. This software uses the  
Boost library (www.boost.org) and Ann library
(www.cs.umd.edu/~mount/ANN/) which are covered under their own licenses.

 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Boost library's license 
(which applies to the Boost library ONLY and NOT to this program itself) is 
as follows:

LICENSE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Boost Software License - Version 1.0 - August 17th, 2003

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person or organization
obtaining a copy of the software and accompanying documentation covered by
this license (the "Software") to use, reproduce, display, distribute,
execute, and transmit the Software, and to prepare derivative works of the
Software, and to permit third-parties to whom the Software is furnished to
do so, all subject to the following:

The copyright notices in the Software and this entire statement, including
the above license grant, this restriction and the following disclaimer,
must be included in all copies of the Software, in whole or in part, and
all derivative works of the Software, unless such copies or derivative
works are solely in the form of machine-executable object code generated by
a source language processor.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE AND NON-INFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT
SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS OR ANYONE DISTRIBUTING THE SOFTWARE BE LIABLE
FOR ANY DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE,
ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
